# Project-553
Wind bundle project in Maharashtra by Sispara

The project activity involves installation of 35.5 MW capacity wind power generation project out of
which 12 MW is developed and operated by “M/s Sispara Renewable Power Private Limited” 6
MW capacity wind power generation project by “M/s Kalsubai Power Private Limited”, 10 MW by
“M/s Nilgiri Power Private Limited” and 7.5 MW capacity wind power generation project by “M/s
NSL Wind Power Company (Sayamalai) Pvt. Ltd” hereinafter called as project proponent or PP,
engaged in the capacity of an Independent Power Producer (IPP) focusing on developing green
power projects in India. The project activity is defined as the installation and operation of total 22
Wind Turbine Generators (WTGs) having individual capacity of 1.5 MW for 17 WTGs and 2.0 MW
for 5 WTGs; having different mechanism such as Regen & INOX. Thus, the total aggregated
installed capacity is 35.5 MW, is operational in the Satara and Sangli district of Maharashtra State,
India

The project activity harnesses kinetic energy of wind (renewable source) to generate electricity. It is
capable to generate around 62,196 MWh of annualized average green electricity, which is estimated
based on an operational utilization factor of 20% with efficient utilization of the available wind
energy through adoption of an efficient and modern technology. The power generated by this
project activity has been supplied to Maharashtra state electricity grid, which is a part of Indian
Grid system. Thus, the project activity contributes to emission reductions which would have
otherwise caused due to the consumption of grid electricity which is predominantly fossil fuel
based. Also, the project activity helps reducing the demand-supply gap in the state and also helps in
contributing to the sustainable development attributes in the project region. 
____________
PRIOR HISTORY
__________
UNFCCC CDM

Wind Power Project by M/s Sispara Renewable Power Private Limited in Maharashtra, India

Host party(ies)	India

Methodology(ies)	AMS-I.D. ver. 18

Standardised Baselines	N/A

Estimated annual reductions*	22,548

Start date of first crediting period.	01 Jun 15

Length of first crediting period.	10 years

DOE/AE	LGAI Technological Center, S.A.

Period for comments	21 Mar 15 - 19 Apr 15

No Issuance History
__________________
CDM PRIOR CONSIDERATION HISTORY

PROJECT NAME / PP INFO  /DATE SUBMITTED
____________

Wind Power Project by M/s Kalsubai Power Private Limited in Maharashtra, India/	Kalsubai Power Private Limited	India/	04 Dec 2014
_________
Wind Power Project by M/s Nilgiri Power Private Limited in Maharashtra, India	/Nilgiri Power Private Limited	India/	04 Dec 2014
_____________
Wind Power Project by M/s Sispara Renewable Power Private Limited in Maharashtra, India	/Sispara Renewable Power Private Limited	India	/04 Dec 2014
_______________
Sayamalai Wind Power Project in Maharashtra, India/	NSL Wind Power Company (Sayamalai) Pvt., Ltd.	India	/07 Feb 2014
_______________

